# Mobile-Development-and-Architecture

#Briefly summarize the requirements and goals of the app you developed. What user needs was this app designed to address? The requirement of my weight tracking app that I built in this class was essentially a database. The daatabase that was used is the SQLite database. The app needed to authenticate user logins and allow them to register a new account if they have not created one. The app allows users to monitor their weight by entering daily recorded weights into the database and comparing it against a target weight entry. Users can use the app to monitor their weight gain or weight loss pursuit. They are able to insert/create weight data, read them, edit them, and delete them as they choose. 


What screens and features were necessary to support user needs and produce a user-centered UI for the app? How did your UI designs keep users in mind? Why were your designs successful? For a functional application that ensures data privacy and security, we used the login page for user input authentication, then we have the home page where the user could add weight entries. The Home screen had all the necessary widgets to allow the user to navigate to the page or screen of choice. We had the plus imageButton which navigates users to the Home screen, the delete imageButton takes the user to the Delete page, the pencil edit button takes users to the edit screen. The display weight data button navigates to the display screen where users can view their recorded weights in the database. The UI design of this app made it easy for users to navigate the app. The UI desgin upholds industry standard, thus making it intuitive for users to operate. My design was successful because it is intuitive and user-centered aside its unique aesthetic appeal.


How did you approach the process of coding your app? What techniques or strategies did you use? How could those be applied in the future? The approach I used in this project is understanding in detail the user requirements. I made sure to fully understand what the user would expect from using the app. I researched other weight tracking apps before starting out to code. In the future, these techniques would come in handy. By fully understanding the user requirement specification, I would be able to code applications that do not deviate from client expectations.


How did you test to ensure your code was functional? Why is this process important and what did it reveal? As mentioned above, understanding the user needs and expectations of the application is crucial. There is therefore, the need to test the app every step of the way in the software development lifecycle. In my weight tracking application, I did not really develop unit tests but I used the AVD of the Android emulator to display every change I made. If the emulator display reflects the change, it indicates success. For the most part, all the changes I made in the course of writing the code showed up in the emulator indicating success.


Considering the full app design and development process, from initial planning to finalization, where did you have to innovate to overcome a challenge? The development of the weight tracking app was the most difficult project I have had to deal with in my journey as a programmer. This is primarily because of a lack of familiarity with Android Studio. The biggest challenge was writing the actual code for the application. Most of the resources I found were ambiguous in their explanations and when I applied their coding method, my emulator would break or not reflect the change. The innovation came in when I had to apply my understanding of one of the resources my instructor recommended to coding my weight tracker app. This was at the stage of building the SQLite database to perform CRUD operations.


In what specific component from your mobile app were you particularly successful in demonstrating your knowledge, skills, and experience? The building of the database and implementation of CRUD operations were hard initially to understand but with the help of my instructor, I eventually understood it. I was able to successfully create the SQLite database and create CRUD methods for creating/inserting weights, reading/displaying weight details, editing weight information and deleting weight data. That was such a big relief.
